---
title: Familial Aggregation and Heritability of Myopia
comments: true
---

Qin Wang<sup>1</sup>, Chun-Fang Wang<sup>2</sup>, Hao-Yu BI<sup>3</sup>
<br/> 1 Shanxi Medical University,Taiyuan,Shanxi ,China.
<br/> 2 Department of Ophthalmology, First hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.
<br/> 3 Gaoping Fuming Eye Hospital, Gaoping, Shanxi, China.
# Abstract
**Purpose**: To determine the role of environmental factors and genetic factors in the development of myopia and further guide the behavior of myopic susceptible people and delay onset and development of myopia.
<br/> **Methods**: 1852 students were selected by multi-stage sampling. Each student's vision, corrected vision and diopter were examined. Each student was given a questionnaire about myopia status of first-degree relatives. SPSS 25.0 software was used for statistical analysis. Significance analysis in each group was performed by χ2 test. Falconer method was used to calculate the inheritability of myopia.
<br/> **Results**: A total of 1852 people were investigated in this study, and 1813 people were finally included. The family aggregation of myopia in the myopic student group (34.7%) was significantly higher than that in no myopic group (8.5%). The prevalence of mild, moderate and high myopia in children (students and siblings) was higher than that of their parents. The rate of high myopia (6.33%) was significantly higher among students with one or both parents than those without myopia parents (3.85%). The heritability of mild, moderate and high myopia among parent-offspring were 3.72%, 20.47% and 48.00%. The heritability of mild, moderate and high myopia among siblings were 17.50%, 86.09% and 78.75%, significantly higher than that among parent-offspring.
<br/> **Conclusion**: Myopia is a polygenic genetic disease with high risk of familial aggregation. Students with family history of myopia are more likely to have high myopia than those without family history. Compared with genetic factors, environmental factors contribute more to mild and moderate myopia. Genetic factors and environmental factors interact with each other in the occurrence and development of high myopia. Genetic and Shared environmental effects among family members can weaken or strengthen myopia. Therefore, students with a family history of myopic should pay close attention to their eye health to avoid the occurrence of myopia and the deepening of diopter, which may lead to high myopia and related complications.
Keywords: myopia, familial aggregation, prevalence of myopia, inheritability.
# Background
Myopia is the most common refractive error of the eye. It is estimated that the population of myopia and high myopia people will increase to 4.758 billion and 938 million globally by 2050<sup>1</sup>. Thus, scholars have conducted lots of researches on the cause of myopia and listed many possible factors. Genetic and environment are the most significant factors in the aetiology of myopia. The role of genetic factor on myopia cannot be ignored based on the fact that myopia is a polygenic genetic disease with feature of familial aggregation. With the development of genetic engineering and molecular biology in recent years, there are many researches focused on genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of myopia, while few researches focused on the comparison between environmental factor and genetic factor for the development of myopia. Although some scholars once did such researches by analyzing heritability of myopia, it still needs to be further explored in case of changes caused by the improvement of social environment and living standards. Besides, retinal complications caused by high myopia is associated with visual impairment and blindness. So many researches about heritability of myopia are mainly concentrated on high myopia population and few about mild or moderate myopia. However, there is a great possibility that mild or moderate myopia is caused by more complex or multiple reasons and it is worthwhile to explore it deeper. In the study, we investigated the relationship between one of the genetic factors, familial aggregation, and development of myopia. We also assessed the susceptibility of myopic by calculating heritability to analyze genetic and environment factors to further guide the daily behaviors and habits for susceptible group and forestall even prevent the onset of myopia.
# Methods
## Study population
A multi-stage sampling method was used in this study. In the first stage, 2 kindergartens, 2 primary schools, 2 middle schools and one high school were selected by stratified sampling with the learning stage as the layer. In the second stage, stratified cluster sampling was used to select two classes randomly from each grade of each school. Due to poor cooperation in various inspections among the lower grade students, only high-grade students were selected in kindergarten. There were 1852 children in total.
## Questionnaire
Questionnaire was designed to investigate parents’ and siblings’ eyesight, diopter and the degree of spectacles and was filled by parents and students together. All of that information has to be latest for each family member. There was a pre-test about the content of questionnaire to evaluate the feasibility. Some modification and complement were done based on pre-test result.
## Eye measurements
Eye examination was performed for each student, including uncorrected visual acuity, corrected visual acuity and diopter. The measurement of the refractive error was performed using an autorefractometer (RM-8900; Topcon, Tokyo, Japan) for all eyes. Diopter is equal to spherical equivalent, which is the sum of the full spheres and ½ cylinders.
## Data standard
According to the degree of ball mirror, myopia is defined as<sup>4</sup>: SE≤-0.50D, which is further divided into three categories: mild myopia (＞-3.00D) , moderate myopia (-3.00D~-6.00D) , high myopia (＜-6.00D)
<br/> Familial aggregation: In a family, there are at least two family members with positive corresponding indicators.
<br/> Heritability: We often use percent (%) to estimate the role of pathogenic genes in polygenic genetic diseases. 70%-80% heritability indicates that genetic factor is dominant reason for the disease, while 30%-40% heritability indicates environmental factor is more important than genetic factor for onset of the disease.
## Statistical method
SPSS25.0 software was used for statistical analysis. The adoption rate or composition ratio of classified data such as prevalence rate of myopia, familial aggregation of students and first-degree relatives was analyzed. Chi-square test was used to test whether or not the expected relationship exists.
Heritability was measured using Falconer regression. Assuming the prevalence of Immediate family is normal distribution, mean(X) and variance(a) could be known. Heritability (h2) was expressed as b/r, where b was correlation coefficient and expressed as (Xc – Xr)/ac (Xc was mean of the prevalence of Immediate family among no myopic student group, Xr was mean of the prevalence of immediate family among myopic student group and ac was variance of the prevalence of immediate family among no myopic student group). r was the kinship correlation and equal to 0.5 in this case.
# Results
A total of 1,852 questionnaires were hand out to participants. 1,813 questionnaires were eligible for our study and 39 were invalid. 4,254 immediate family members were included in the analysis, with 1781 father, 1791 mother and 682 siblings. Total individuals were 6067 coming from 1813 families. 7 families had 1 immediate family member. 28 families had 2 immediate family members. 1108 families had 3 immediate family members and 670 families had 4 immediate family members.

A total of 1813 families participated in this study, among which 452 families had no myopic patients, 901 families had only 1 myopic patient, 307 families had 2 myopic patients, 125 families had 3 myopic patients, and 28 families had 4 myopic patients (Table 1).

A total of 460 families have familial aggregation of myopia, among which 55 families in the students without myopia group had familial aggregation, accounting for 8.50% of the students without myopia group. The 405 families in the myopia student group had familial aggregation, accounting for 34.73% of the students with myopia, which was significantly higher than that of the students without myopia. There was statistical evidence to research the difference (χ2=151.235, P＜0.001) (Table 2).

Table 1. Distribution of myopia in family members
<style>
table th:first-of-type {
    width: 7cm;
}
</style>
|Myopic member in each family| 0 |1|2|3|4|In Total|
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|No myopic student|452|140|48|6|1|647
|Myopic student|0|761|259|119|27|1166
|In total|452|901|307|125|28|1813




Table 2. Statistical table of family aggregation of myopic
<style>
table th:first-of-type {
    width: 7cm;
}
</style>
|Characteristic	|Without family aggregation	|With family aggregation|	χ2|	P<br/> |
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|No myopic student|	592（91.50%）|	55（8.50%）|	151.235	|＜0.001|
|Myopic student|	761（65.26%）|	405（34.73%）| | |

Students were divided into four groups based on spherical equivalent: no myopia, mild myopia, moderate myopia and high myopia. For each group, we summarized degree of myopia for their first-degree relatives. Students and their siblings had higher myopic prevalence than their parents (table 3).

Table 3. Statistical table of myopia of students and first-degree relatives
<style>
table th:first-of-type {
    width: 7cm;
}
</style>
|Relative|Myopia Status&nbsp;&nbsp;|No Myopia 647（35.68）|	Mild Myopia 721（39.76）|Moderate Myopia 363（20.02）|High Myopia 82（4.52）|	In Total 1813（100）
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|Father|	No|	534(86.13)|	614(85.04)|	292(81.56)|	63(77.78)|	1503(84.39)|
||	Mild|	42(6.77)|	60(8.31)|	42(11.73)	|6(7.41)|	150(8.42)|
||	Moderate|	40(6.45)|	35(4.85)|	20(5.58)|	9(11.11)|	104(5.84)|
||	High	|4(0.65)|	13(1.80)|	4(1.12)	|3(3.70)|	24(1.34)|
||	In total|	620（34.81）|	722（40.54）|	358（20.10）|	81（4.55）|	1781（100）|
|Mother|	No|	516(80.63)|	573(80.70)|	284(78.89)	|55(67.90)|	1428(79.73)|
||	Mild|	62(9.68)|	75(10.56)|	45(12.50)	|17(20.99)	|199(11.11)|
||	Moderate|	46(7.19)|	50(7.05)|	23(6.39)|	4(4.94)	|123(6.87)|
||	High|	16(2.50)|	12(1.69)|	8(2.22)|	5(6.17)	|41(2.29)|
|| In total|	640(35.74)|	710(39.64)|	360(20.10)|	81(4.52)|	1791（100）|
|Siblings|	No|	145(80.56)|	216(76.60)|	103(59.88)|	30(62.50)	|494(72.43)|
||	Mild|	26(14.44)|	40(14.18)	|35(20.35)|	9(18.75)|	110(16.14)|
||	Moderate|	6(3.33)|	21(7.45)	|28(16.28)|	6(12.50)|	61(8.94)|
||	High|	3(1.67)|	5(1.77)|	6(3.49)|	3(6.25)|	17(2.49)|
||	In total|	180（26.39）|	282（41.35）|	172(25.22)|	48(7.04)|	682（100）

Table 4 shows a summary about parents and students myopia status. For students who were mild myopia or moderate myopia, the percentages between myopia parents and no myopia were nearly equal (P＞0.05). While in high myopia group, the percentage of myopic parents was higher than no myopic parents. There was statistical evidence of parent’s refractive status effect on students (χ2=5.058, P=0.025).

Table 4. Comparison of myopia between parents and student
<style>
table th:first-of-type {
    width: 4cm;
}
</style>
|Status	|No myopia |	Mild myopia |	Moderate myopia| 	High myopia
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|Myopia parents	|169（34.49%）|	182（37.14%）	|108（22.04%）|	31（6.33%）|
|No myopia parents|	478（36.18%）|	539（40.74%）|	255（19.27）|	51（3.85%）|
|χ2	|0.419|	1.932	|1.709|	5.058|
|P|	0.517	|0.164|	0.191|	0.025|

Table 5 and table 6 show myopia heritability of parents-offspring and siblings. High myopia had highest heritability for parents-offspring heritability (48.00%). Compared with parents-offspring heritability, siblings’ heritability was obvious. Compared with the parents-offspring  myopia inheritance rate, the myopia heritability among siblings was higher than that between parents and children in the mild and high myopia group.

Table 5. Calculation table of myopia heritability of students and parents
<style>
table th:first-of-type {
    width: 4cm;
}
</style>
|Student Status|Parents|	Myopic Parents|	q（%）|	x	|a|	b	|h<sup>2</sup>(%)|
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|No Myopia|	1267	|210|	16.57|	0.974	|1.504|||		
|Mild Myopia|	1425|	245	|17.19|	0.946	|1.482|	0.019	|3.72|
|Moderate Myopia|	688|	142	|20.64|	0.820	|1.383|	0.102	|20.48|
|High Myopia|	162	|44	|27.16|	0.613	|1.225|	0.240	|48.00|

Table 6. Calculation table of myopia heritability among siblings
<style>
table th:first-of-type {
    width: 7cm;
}
</style>
|Student status	|Siblings	|Myopic siblings|	q（%）|	x	|a|	b	|h<sup>2</sup>(%)|
|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|:------:|
|No myopia|	181|	35|	19.33|	0.863	|1.417|||		
|Mild Myopia|	282	|66|	23.40|	0.739	|1.320|	0.088	|17.50|
|Moderate Myopia|	172|	69|	40.12|	0.253|	0.966	|0.433|	86.09|
|High Myopia|	48|	18|	37.50	|0.305|	1.002	|0.394|	78.75|

# Discussion
With the prevalence of myopia across the world and corresponding economic burden, many researches focus on the reason of this problem. Although how environmental factor influence eyesight in exact mechanism of action is still unsettled, the important of this factor for myopia has continuedly verified by scholars, especially extended near work, higher education pressure and minimal outdoor activities. To our surprise, under nearly same environment, there are higher risk to have myopia for some individuals or family than others. This phenomenon is closely related with genetic susceptibility for myopia. In the past research about genetic epidemiology, some disease shows no clustering while some have obvious clustering in family, indicating those disease is influenced by genetic factor and has familial aggregation. According to analyze myopia in family data, we found family aggregation among myopic students is more obvious than nonmyopic students, which is one of the features for polygenic disease. Farbrother<sup>11</sup> also proposed that myopia has family aggregation trend in his research and is a polygenic disease, demonstrating the importance of genetic in onset of myopia.

After investigating students and their relatives, we found prevalence of myopia is higher among students than parental myopia whatever myopia stage. One possible reason is the difference of growth environment. For parents, they lived in an agrarian lifestyle when they were young and did not have many chances to engage in modern technologies such as computer, television and video games. Pan<sup>12</sup> reported the prevalence of myopia was higher in second-generation immigrants than first-generation immigrants according to their study about 3400 Singaporean Indians aged over 40 years. These studies show that genetic will not significantly change within several generation and the higher prevalence of myopia in second-generation is not largely influenced by genetic factor but environment factor.

Several studies reported myopic parents have great influence on their offspring. In family that both parents have myopia, their children have higher risk to have myopia than in family that only has one myopic parent. This is consistent with our results in high myopia family, while in mild or moderate myopia family, we found there is no significant evidence to show the high risk. Possible reason is environment is main influence factor for mild or moderate myopia. This result is consistent with the conclusion from Xiaolei Ren<sup>15</sup> who found that genetic factor has obvious impact in onset and development of high myopia.

Genetic decides the susceptibility of environment factor<sup>16</sup>. With the increasing prevalence of myopia, evaluating the susceptibility of myopia is becoming important. Myopia heritability is a good index for susceptibility. In our study, the heritability in mild, moderate and high myopia is 3.72%、20.47%、48.00% respectively, indicating that environment factor has greater influence for mild and moderate myopia ,while genetic factor is more obvious for high myopia. And myopia is caused by an interplay between genetic factor and environmental factor. With potential myopia genes in family, offspring has higher possibility to have myopia if they do not have good lifestyle and habits. Tingting Wang<sup>17</sup> performed an analysis about the heritability of mild myopia, moderate myopia and high myopia between parents and children, which are 0.1083±0.0596、0.343±0.0756、0.5604±0.0663 respectively and consistent with our result. Hwang [18] discovered that the heritability of mild myopia and high myopia are 44.3% and 68.9% in Korean. This data is higher than our result. Possible reasons are various lifestyle between two races, learning environment and social environment or different age groups of research object.

We found that sib-sib heritability of myopia is obviously higher than parent-offspring heritability. It is not surprise because siblings in close age normally have same family environment and similar behaviors. Clustering effect cannot be ignored since more and more young generation have myopia. Morgan<sup>19</sup> conducted a research about the vary of myopia heritability in sib-sib and parent-offspring with social environment changing. They suggested that sib-sib heritability remains high level no matter the changes of social environment. Guggenheim <sup>3</sup> reanalyzed the data of Goldschmidt in 1960s and also found sib-sib heritability is usually higher. Siblings and parent-offspring have similar genes and the heritability should have be similar. However, both our study and past research found that sib-sib heritability is higher than parent-offspring heritability, demonstrating that environmental factor and genetic factor is interplayed. Even though having similar genes in a family, siblings share common environment and habits, resulting in higher heritability for myopia. All of those studies indicate that common environment shared by siblings has significant impact for development of myopia.

In conclusion, myopia is a polygenic disease influenced by both gene and environment. Heritability between family member and common environment can weaken or strengthen myopia. For people who are susceptibility to myopia but not myopic, one possible reason is they have not yet exposed to such environment and vice versa. Therefore, focusing on lifestyle requires action from all of those children with myopic genes to avoid the onset and development of myopic.



# REFENCES
[1]	Holden BA, Fricke TR, Wilson DA, et al. Global Prevalence of Myopia and High Myopia and Temporal Trends from 2000 through 2050[J]. Ophthalmology, 2016, 123(7): 1036–1042.
<br/> [2]	Liao X, Tan QQ, Lan CJ. Myopia genetics in genome-wide association and post-genome-wid association study era[J]. International Journal of Ophthalmology, 2019, 12(9): 1487-1492.
<br/> [3]	Guggenheim JA, Kirov G, Hodson SA. The heritability of high myopia: a reanalysis of Goldschmidt's data[J]. Journal of medical genetics, 2000, 37(3): 227-231.
<br/> [4]	Yang PZ, Fan XQ. Ophthalmology [M]. Beijing: People's Medical Publishing House, 2018:221-225.
<br/> [5]	Min DY, Huang WY, Yang JY, et al. Analysis of family clustering and influencing factors of HBV infection in minority population in Guizhou [J].Public Health in China, 2016, 32(02): 183-187.
<br/> [6]	Yang BS, Li G, Jiao HY, et al. Polygenic inheritance and polygenic genetic diseases [M].Medical Genetics. Beijing: Higher Education Press, 2013: 099-099.
<br/> [7]	Ku PW, Steptoe A, Lai YJ, et al. The Associations between Near Visual Activity and Incident Myopia in Children[J]. Ophthalmology, 2019, 126(2): 214-220.
<br/> [8]	Williams KM, Bentham GCG, Young IS, et al. Association Between Myopia, Ultraviolet B Radiation Exposure, Serum Vitamin D Concentrations, and Genetic Polymorphisms in Vitamin D Metabolic Pathways in a Multicountry European Study[J]. JAMA Ophthalmology, 2017, 135(1): 47-53.
<br/> [9]	Jung SK, Lee JH, Kakizaki H, et al. Prevalence of myopia and its association with body stature and educational level in 19-year-old male conscripts in seoul, South Korea[J]. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci, 2012, 53(9): 5579-5583.
<br/> [10]	Xu J, Xu L. Six dimensional assessment and prevention and control model of myopia [J]. Chinese Journal of Ophthalmic Optics and Vision Science 2018, 20(3): 129-132.
<br/> [11]	Farbrother JE, Kirov G, Owen MJ, et al. Family aggregation of high myopia: estimation of the sibling recurrence risk ratio[J]. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci, 2004, 45(9): 2873–2878.
<br/> [12]	Pan CW, Zheng YF, Wong TY, et al. Variation in Prevalence of Myopia Between-generations of Migrant Indians Living in Singapore[J]. American Journal of Ophthalmology, 2012, 154(2): 376-381.
<br/> [13]	Lim DH, Han J, Chung TY, et al. Epidemiologic Survey Committee of the Korean Ophthalmologic Society. Correction: The high prevalence of myopia in Korean children with influence of parental refractive errors: The 2008-2012 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey[J]. PLoS One, 2018, 13(12): e0209876.
<br/> [14]	Liao C, Ding X, Han X, et al. Role of Parental Refractive Status in Myopia Progression: 12-Year Annual Observation From the Guangzhou Twin Eye Study[J]. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci, 2019, 60(10): 3499-3506.
<br/> [15]	Ren XL,You Q,WANG JF,et al. Relationship between myopia in parents and prevalence of myopia in college freshmen [J]. eye, 2015, 24(1): 36-39.
<br/> [16]	Tedja MS, Haarman A, Meester-Smoor MA, et al. IMI-Myopia Genetics Report[M]. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci, 2019, 60(3): M89-M10510, 1167.
<br/> [17]	Wang TT，Munire R，Aikeranmu A, et al. Heritability analysis of myopia among primary and middle school students in Yining City[J]. Chinese Journal of Child Health. 2017, 25(8): 834-836.
<br/> [18]	Hwang HS, Park GH, Heo JW, et al. Estimating heritability of refractive error in Koreans: the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey[J]. Acta Ophthalmol, 2019, 97(2): e248-e255.
<br/> [19]	Morgan I, Rose K. How genetic is school myopia[J]. Progress in Retinal and Eye Research, 2005, 24(1): 1-38.
